[#1596] add import documentation (#1679)
open-zaak/open-zaak: docs/installation/reference/import.rst

The next step in the import process, after creating an `Import` instance, is providing
a metadata file which starts the actual importing of `EnkelvoudigInformatieObject`'s.

**Starting an Import**

After creating an `Import` instance, users can provide an import metadafile. This
should be a csv which consists of rows with data needed to create an `EnkelvoudigInformatieObject`.
The data this csv should contain is rougly the same as that is needed for creating
an `EnkelvoudigInformatieObject` through a "regular" API call with some exceptions.
For more details about the format and the requirements of the csv file, the API
documentation should be consulted. The request for this endpoint should be a `POST`
request containing the csv data in its request body.

Whenever the csv contains invalid and or missing headers the import process will
not be started. Whenever headers are missing the error response will contain those
headers.

One column which is required for each row in the csv file is the path to the
file which will be imported and will be assosiated to the `EnkelvoudigInformatieObject`.
This should be a relative path from the path configured in `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR`.

> Before starting an import, the directory configured through `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR`,

Reviewer: Could you add `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR` and `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BATCH_SIZE` to the environment variable configuration (`docs/installation/config/env_config.rst`) and add references for them here? 

```rst
.. _import_documenten_base_dir:
* ``IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR``: ...
```

and then refer to them in this file like this:

```rst
:ref:`IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR <import_documenten_base_dir>`
```

Not 100% sure if this example I gave works right away, but more on this can be found here https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/cross-referencing-with-sphinx.html#cross-referencing-using-roles

I also think I would maybe reference these envvars in a separate section before ``Process`` (maybe something like ``Prerequisites``) and mention that these need to be set before this functionality can be used (though I'm not sure if they need to be set explicitly or if the defaults work too), instead of first mentioning them in the process description.

is accessed to check if this directory exists (and if it actually is a directory).
Whenever this is not the case the import also will not start.

> Just like in the step to create the `Import` instance, no other `pending` or `active`
> import instances can be active before starting the specified `Import`.

Reviewer: I'm not 100% sure when an `Import` actually gets the status `pending` or `active`, is this after the file is uploaded?
```suggestion
Just like in the step to create the `Import` instance, it is not possible to start an ``Import`` if there is another ``Import`` in progress.
```

that of the provided metadata file with the additional columns which specify wether
an row is imported or not and if there any comments about the row.

Import behavior
----------------

The actual import process, which is a background task, imports each row in
batches (configured through `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BATCH_SIZE`). During each batch
several error situations can occure. For example an existing
`EnkelvoudigInformatieObject` can exist with the specified `uuid`. This can be
considered a validation error and will not cause other rows in the specific batch
not to be imported.

Another situation that can occure is for example a database connection loss. This
causes an situation where the import process cannot proceed and will stop the import
process (the background task). In this situation the database cannot be reached and
the data `Import` instance will be out-of-sync. Logging however is done and the
report file will have comments for all rows in that specified batch.

During the import, files are copied to the import path that the "regular" endpoint
for `EnkelvoudigInformatieObject`'s would do so too. Files are however overwritten

> whenever they already exist.

Reviewer: I would maybe rephrase this to something like:

```
If a row does not cause any validation errors, the file associated with that row will be copied to Open Zaak's storage. If the file already exists there, it will be overwritten.
```

Configuration

> --------------

Reviewer: I agree it would be better to move this section before `Process`.

Though I'm not sure what to do with the help texts for the envvars. Should we put them here or add them in `env_config.rst` and refer to them here? @annashamray thoughts?

> Settings related to the import functionaly are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Environment variables related to the import functionality are:
```

- `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR`
- `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BATCH_SIZE`

> `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR` is used to determine the absolute import path for each

Reviewer: Had a question related to this which I posted on the PR with the code: https://github.com/open-zaak/open-zaak/pull/1654#issuecomment-2165285289

row in the import metadata file. All file paths specified in the import metadata
file should be relative to the directory specified for this setting.
By default this is the same directory as the projects directory (`BASE_DIR`) and
can either be configured through an environment variable or directly through the
django's settings file being used.

> `IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BATCH_SIZE` is used to split the amount of data which will be
> processed at a time. This setting was added for performance reasons and can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BATCH_SIZE` is the number of rows that will be processed at a time. This setting was added for performance reasons and can be
```

> tweaked accordingly through an environment variable or directly through the django's
> setting file being used.

Reviewer: I wouldn't mention this, because this is not documentation for developers
```suggestion
```

.. _installation_reference_import:

===========================
Importing documents in bulk

> ===========================

Reviewer 2: This comment is optional. 
But what do you think about adding a sequence diagram from GH issue to the documentation?

``InformatieObjectType``'s. Various permissions exist within Open Zaak and
therefore to make use of the import functionality, only users with an
``Applicatie`` with the ``heeft_alle_autorisaties`` set to ``True`` are allowed
to perform any import operation.

**Creating an Import**

The first step in the import process is that of making an ``Import`` resource.
This is done through a ``POST`` request. The request body of this request can be empty
for this step.

Creating an ``Import`` is only possible whenever no other ``Import`` instance exist
with the statusses ``pending`` or ``active``.

Whenever no other import is pending or active, the endpoint will provide the user
three URLs: a URL to upload an import metadata file, a URL to retrieve the status
of an import and another URL for downloading a report of the import. These three
urls provide the user the ability to progress further in the import process.
After this request the ``Import`` instance will have it's status changed to
``pending``.

See the `API documentation for creating an Import`_ for more details.

**Starting an Import**

After creating an `Import` instance, users can upload an import metada file. This

> should be a CSV which consists of rows with data needed to create an
> ``EnkelvoudigInformatieObject``. The data this CSV should contain is roughly the
> same as the data needed for creating an ``EnkelvoudigInformatieObject`` through

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
should be a CSV which consists of rows with the data needed to create an
``EnkelvoudigInformatieObject``. This data is roughly the
same as the data needed for creating an ``EnkelvoudigInformatieObject`` through
```

I think this sounds more _"proper"_ (not just any data) but not really necessary.

Also an edit to make the next line more concise

a "regular" API call with some exceptions. For more details about the format and
the requirements of the CSV file, the API documentation should be consulted.
The request for this endpoint should be a ``POST`` request containing the CSV data
in its request body.

Whenever the CSV file contains invalid and/or missing headers, the import process will
not be started and the error response will contain any missing headers.

The ``bestandspad`` column, which is required for each row in the CSV file,
is the path to the file which will be imported and will be assosciated to the
``EnkelvoudigInformatieObject``. This should be a relative path from the directory
configured in ``IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR``.

The import will only start if the ``IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR`` setting is set
correctly. Unknown directories or the ``IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR`` leading to a

> path which is actually a file are examples of incorrect configurations. An

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
a file instead of a directory are examples of incorrect configurations. An
```

incorrectly configured ``IMPORT_DOCUMENTEN_BASE_DIR`` setting will cause the import
to not start.

Just like in the step to create the ``Import`` instance, no other ``pending`` or
``active`` import instances can be active before starting the specified ``Import``.

After this request passes validation (with the above mentioned checks) the
actual import process is started through a background task and the status of the
``Import`` instance is changed to ``active``.

See the `API documentation for starting an Import`_ for more details.

**Retrieving the status**

The status of the ``Import`` can be retrieved when an import process is started
and has the status ``pending``, ``active``, ``finished`` or ``error``. This endpoint
can be called through a `GET` request. The data of the response contains

> information for example about the total amount of rows the import metadata file

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
information, for example, about the total amount of rows the import metadata file
```
